feat: adding new page for create custom serializers (#3151)
Kotlin/kotlinx.serialization: docs-website/topics/serialization-create-and-use-custom-serializers.md

//sampleStart
@Serializable
data class Color(val rgb: Int)

fun main() {
    // Retrieves the generated serializer for the Color class
    val colorSerializer: KSerializer<Color> = Color.serializer()
    println(colorSerializer.descriptor)
    // Color(rgb: kotlin.Int)
}
//sampleEnd
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

> [Built-in primitive types and `String`](serialization-serialize-builtin-types.md) also provide serializers through the `.serializer()` function, such as `Int.serializer()` and `String.serializer()`.
> 
{style="note"}

You can use the top-level `serializer<T>()` function to obtain a serializer for any type, including parameterized ones:

```kotlin
// Imports declarations from the serialization library
import kotlinx.serialization.*

//sampleStart
@Serializable
@SerialName("Color")
class Color(val rgb: Int)

fun main() {
    // Retrieves the serializer for the Map<String, Color>
    val stringToColorMapSerializer: KSerializer<Map<String, Color>> = serializer()
    println(stringToColorMapSerializer.descriptor)
    // kotlin.collections.LinkedHashMap(PrimitiveDescriptor(kotlin.String), Color(rgb: kotlin.Int))
}
//sampleEnd
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

> For generic types, you can also provide one `KSerializer` argument for each type parameter when calling the generated `.serializer()` function:

Reviewer: "If you want to use generated function, you _have_ to provide one `KSerializer` argument...." — without linking, it is hard to understand how this approach is different

Author: That works, and it's a good point 👍  although for a more direct version I suggest we go with something like this(so we reference the generated function immediately): 

For generic classes, if you want to use the generated `.serializer()` function, provide one `KSerializer` argument for each type parameter:

A surrogate class is a class that matches the serialized form of another class.

Surrogate classes are useful when the serialized form needs validation before creating the original class or when direct serialization doesn't fit the class's rules.

You can make surrogate classes [`private`](visibility-modifiers.md#class-members), and use an `init` block to enforce constraints on the serial representation of the class.
You can also [define a custom serial name](serialization-customization-options.md#customize-serial-names) to keep the serialized type name unchanged.

Let's look at an example that serializes `Color` as a JSON object with specific ranges for the `r`, `g`, and `b` properties:

```kotlin
// Defines a surrogate that matches the serialized form
@Serializable
@SerialName("Color")
private class ColorSurrogate(val r: Int, val g: Int, val b: Int) {
    init {
        // Enforces constraints on the serialized form
        require(r in 0..255 && g in 0..255 && b in 0..255)
    }
}
```

Similarly to [delegating serialization to another serializer](#delegate-serialization-to-another-serializer), the custom serializer converts

> the original class to another representation, but here it reuses the structure of the automatically generated `SerialDescriptor` instead of requiring you to create one manually.

Reviewer: We didn't create manually anything in "delegating to another serializer" though. As I said, samples are the same: `SerialDescriptor("my.app.Color", someDelegate.descriptor)`

What we are actually doing is we are delegating serialization and descriptor to a class we created on our own. So perhaps you can just say "Similarly to [delegating serialization to another serializer](#delegate-serialization-to-another-serializer), the custom serializer converts
the original class to another representation and wraps its automatically generated `SerialDescriptor`"

Author: I like this version, but now I feel it's a bit ambiguous what we mean by "its" refers to. 

So WDYT "that representation's like: 

Similarly to [delegating serialization to another serializer](#delegate-serialization-to-another-serializer), the custom serializer converts the original class to another representation and wraps that representation's automatically generated `SerialDescriptor`.

   ```kotlin
   override fun serialize(encoder: Encoder, value: Type) =
       encoder.encodeStructure(descriptor) {
           encodeIntElement(descriptor, 0, value.first)
           encodeIntElement(descriptor, 1, value.second)
       }
   ```

5. Implement the `deserialize()` function using the [`decodeStructure()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization.encoding/decode-structure.html) DSL.
   Inside its block, the lambda receiver is a [`CompositeDecoder`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization.encoding/-composite-decoder/), which you use to call functions like [`decodeIntElement()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization.encoding/-composite-decoder/decode-int-element.html) to decode each property.

>    Most formats allow encoded data in an arbitrary order, which can differ from the order of elements in the serializer's `descriptor`.

Reviewer: Action is missing. "Most formats allow encoded data to come in an arbitrary order" or "Most formats allow data to be encoded in an arbitrary order"

Author: let's go with the second option then 🤔 — imho the action is implied, but you are right that this way we could make it more specific — my issue with this version is it's passive but sometimes we can't help it - we might refine it during TWr peer review

        val string = value.rgb.toString(16).padStart(6, '0')
        encoder.encodeString(string)
    }

    override fun deserialize(decoder: Decoder): Color {
        val string = decoder.decodeString()
        return Color(string.toInt(16))
    }
}

//sampleStart
@OptIn(ExperimentalSerializationApi::class)
@KeepGeneratedSerializer
@Serializable(ColorAsStringSerializer::class)
class Color(val rgb: Int)

fun main() {
    val green = Color(0x00ff00)
    // Uses the custom serializer
    println(Json.encodeToString(green))
    // "00ff00"

    // Uses the plugin-generated serializer
    println(Json.encodeToString(Color.generatedSerializer(), green))
    // {"rgb":65280}

}
//sampleEnd
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

## Apply serializers

You can apply custom serializers to your own classes and to third-party types.
Third-party types, such as [java.util.Date](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Date.html), can't be directly annotated with [`@Serializable`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization/-serializable/) because their source code can't be modified.

### Pass a serializer manually

> To serialize a third-party type such as `Date`, create a custom serializer and pass it explicitly to overloads of functions such as [`Json.encodeToString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-json/kotlinx.serialization.json/-json/encode-to-string.html) and [`Json.decodeFromString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-json/kotlinx.serialization.json/-json/decode-from-string.html):

Reviewer: Replace "third-party type" with just "type" here and in following paragraphs. So:
"To serialize type with a custom serializer, create one and pass it explicitly..."

Author: I think we should still keep in `Date` though, since the example references it (also I think it's worth to spell out the create a custom serializer - create one is understandable, but I'd rather avoid potential confusion and would like to keep it on the safer side):

> To serialize a type such as `Date` with a custom serializer, create a custom serializer and pass it explicitly to overloads of functions such as [`Json.encodeToString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-json/kotlinx.serialization.json/-json/encode-to-string.html) and [`Json.decodeFromString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-json/kotlinx.serialization.json/-json/decode-from-string.html).

Or perhaps we can split it and just omit Date from this keep it generic and add a Here's an example for Date, that way it's less broken up so we could even go with create one: 

> To serialize a type with a custom serializer, create one and pass it explicitly to overloads of functions such as [`Json.encodeToString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-json/kotlinx.serialization.json/-json/encode-to-string.html) and [`Json.decodeFromString()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-json/kotlinx.serialization.json/-json/decode-from-string.html):

> Here's an example that serializes `Date` values as the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch:

Reviewer: I'm fine with keeping Date as the example, it's just that we don't have to focus on third-party classes specifically

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlinx.serialization.*
import kotlinx.serialization.encoding.*
import kotlinx.serialization.descriptors.*
import kotlinx.serialization.json.*
import java.util.Date
import java.text.SimpleDateFormat

//sampleStart
// Can't use @Serializable on Date without access to its source code
object DateAsLongSerializer : KSerializer<Date> {
    override val descriptor: SerialDescriptor = PrimitiveSerialDescriptor("my.app.DateAsLong", PrimitiveKind.LONG)
    override fun serialize(encoder: Encoder, value: Date) = encoder.encodeLong(value.time)
    override fun deserialize(decoder: Decoder): Date = Date(decoder.decodeLong())
}

fun main() {
    val kotlin10ReleaseDate = SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-ddX").parse("2016-02-15+00") 
    // Serializes Date as a Long in milliseconds
    println(Json.encodeToString(DateAsLongSerializer, kotlin10ReleaseDate))    
    // 1455494400000
}
//sampleEnd
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

### Specify a serializer on a property

> When a third-party type is used as a property in a serializable class, specify its serializer on that property with the `@Serializable` annotation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a type is used as a property in a serializable class, specify its custom serializer on that property with the `@Serializable` annotation:
```
